Waiting vs Blocked
In simple terms, a thread will be in WAITING state if it is waiting for 
notification from other threads. A thread will be in BLOCKED state if it is waiting 
for other thread to release the lock it wants.

New Thread: When a new thread is created, it is in the new state.
The thread has not yet started to run when thread is in this state. When a thread lies in the new state, it’s code is yet to be run and hasn’t started to execute.

Runnable State: A thread that is ready to run is moved to runnable state. In this state,
 a thread might actually be running or it might be ready run at any instant of time. 
 It is the responsibility of the thread scheduler to give the thread, time to run.
A multi-threaded program allocates a fixed amount of time to each individual thread. 
Each and every thread runs for a short while and then pauses and relinquishes the CPU to another thread, so that other threads can get a chance to run. When this happens, all such threads that are ready to run, waiting for the CPU and the currently running thread lies in runnable state.

Blocked/Waiting state:When a thread is temporarily inactive, then it’s in one of the following states:
Blocked
Waiting
For example, when a thread is waiting for I/O to complete, it lies in the blocked state. It’s the responsibility of the thread scheduler to reactivate and schedule a blocked/waiting thread. A thread in this state cannot continue its execution any further until it is moved to runnable state. Any thread in these states do not consume any CPU cycle.
 
A thread is in the blocked state when it tries to access a protected section of code that is currently locked by some other thread. When the protected section is unlocked, the schedule picks one of the thread which is blocked for that section and moves it to the runnable state. Whereas, a thread is in the waiting state when it waits for another thread on a condition. When this condition is fulfilled, the scheduler is notified and the waiting thread is moved to runnable state.
If a currently running thread is moved to blocked/waiting state, another thread in the runnable state is scheduled by the thread scheduler to run. It is the responsibility of thread scheduler to determine which thread to run.

Timed Waiting: A thread lies in timed waiting state when it calls a method with a time out parameter. A thread lies in this state until the timeout is completed or until a notification is received. For example, when a thread calls sleep or a conditional wait, it is moved to timed waiting state.

Terminated State: A thread terminates because of either of the following reasons:
Because it exists normally. This happens when the code of thread has entirely executed by the program.
Because there occurred some unusual erroneous event, like segmentation fault or an unhandled exception.
A thread that lies in terminated state does no longer consumes any cycles of CPU.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MultiThreading advantages

OnSignleCore
--------------
If a process is divided into multiple threads. If some thread does I/O other threads can excecute and this helps us to use
Better cpu cycles

OnMultipleProcessors
-------------------
The advantage will be more as it can use all processors but extra work need to done like allocating same memory across
different processors



Yield vs sleep
------------------------------------
When we call yield method on the current thread then it will voluntarily give his chance to some other threads of 
same priority or higher priority if no threads are there then this thread may get chance again

So cpu time will be wasted but we dont know when it will get the chance again

Sleep
----------------------------------
Sleep make the process to be in idle for some time. If no other process is there then cpu will be free wasting its 
resources.. After a particular time again it will become runnable

Best resource for all the state of threads

Blocked state:
All the threads wait for the lock this can be said as blocking state

Waiting state:
A thread has given lock using (wait()) method and now thread is in waiting state so when the notification is 
recieved it execute the next statements after wait method

wait
join


Timed waiting state:
It waits for certain time and after executes the next commands after waits and goes out of sync block ...so
it moves again to blocked state(waiting for the turn)

https://dzone.com/articles/difference-between-blocked-waiting-timed-waiting-e



